Add documentation for `ZIOApp#gracefulShutdownTimeout` (#9923)
zio/zio: docs/reference/core/zioapp.md

```

The `<>` operator combines the layers of the two applications and then runs the two applications in parallel.

## Graceful Shutdown Timeout

> When a ZIO application (e.g. one extending `ZIOAppDefault`) receives an external interruption signal such as **SIGINT** when pressing **Ctrl+C**, the runtime will attempt to run all finalizers (cleanup logic) before exiting. By default, `gracefulShutdownTimeout` returns `Duration.Infinity`, which means ZIO will wait forever for finalizers unless you override.

Reviewer: > returns `Duration.Infinity`

Change to "is set to `Duration.Infinity`"

Override `gracefulShutdownTimeout` to bound how long the runtime should wait for finalizers. For example, to wait at most 30 seconds:

```scala mdoc:compile-only
import zio._

object MyApp extends ZIOAppDefault {
  // Wait at most 30 seconds for all finalizers to complete on SIGINT
  override def gracefulShutdownTimeout: Duration = Duration.fromSeconds(30)

  val run =
    ZIO.logInfo("MyApp is running...") *>
    ZIO.never

> }

Reviewer: Please provide an example that has finalizers. Also provide one that has finalizers that where the timeout will be breached

Author: @kyri-petrou I have added now both examples

```

The `<>` operator combines the layers of the two applications and then runs the two applications in parallel.

## Graceful Shutdown Timeout

When a ZIO application (e.g. one extending `ZIOAppDefault`) receives an external interruption signal such as **SIGINT** when pressing **Ctrl+C**, the runtime will attempt to run all finalizers (cleanup logic) before exiting. By default, `gracefulShutdownTimeout` set to `Duration.Infinity`, which means ZIO will wait indefinitely for finalizers unless you override it.

Below are two examples: one where cleanup finishes within the timeout and one where cleanup deliberately exceeds it.

### Example 1: Finalizer completes within the timeout

```scala mdoc:compile-only
import zio._

object MyApp extends ZIOAppDefault {
  // Wait at most 30 seconds for all finalizers to complete on SIGINT

>   override def gracefulShutdownTimeout: Duration = Duration.fromSeconds(30)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  override def gracefulShutdownTimeout: Duration = 30.seconds
```

  val run: ZIO[ZIOAppArgs with Scope, Any, Any] =
    ZIO.acquireReleaseWith(

>       acquire = ZIO.logInfo("Acquiring resource...") *> ZIO.succeed("MyResource")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      acquire = ZIO.logInfo("Acquiring resource...").as("MyResource")
```

>     )(release = _ => ZIO.logInfo("Releasing resource (3s) ...") *> ZIO.sleep(3.seconds)) {

Reviewer: Add a log statement after the sleep

      resource =>
        ZIO.logInfo(s"Running with $resource, press Ctrl+C to interrupt") *> ZIO.never
    }
}
```

In this example, `MyApp` starts and logs `Acquiring resource...`. When you press Ctrl+C (sending SIGINT), ZIO interrupts the main fiber and immediately runs the finalizer which logs `Releasing resource (3s) ...` and then sleeps for three seconds. Because the finalizer completes its work well within the 30s timeout, the runtime finishes cleanup and the process exits normally.

### Example 2: Finalizer exceeds the timeout
```scala mdoc:compile-only
import zio._

object MyAppTimeout extends ZIOAppDefault {
  // Wait at most 5 seconds for finalizers to complete on SIGINT
  override def gracefulShutdownTimeout: Duration = Duration.fromSeconds(5)

  val run: ZIO[ZIOAppArgs with Scope, Any, Any] =
    ZIO.acquireReleaseWith(
      acquire = ZIO.logInfo("Acquiring resource...") *> ZIO.succeed("MyResource")
    )(release = _ => ZIO.logInfo("Releasing resource (20s) ...") *> ZIO.sleep(20.seconds)) {
      resource =>
        ZIO.logInfo(s"Running with $resource, press Ctrl+C to interrupt") *> ZIO.never
    }

> }

Reviewer: Update example based on my feedback above

Author: @kyri-petrou Done!

```
Here, `MyAppTimeout` starts and logs `Acquiring resource...`. If you press Ctrl+C after a few seconds, ZIO interrupts the main fiber and starts running the finalizer, logging `Releasing resource (20s) ...` before sleeping for twenty seconds. However, `gracefulShutdownTimeout` is set to just five seconds, ZIO waits those five seconds and then prints exactly:

```bash
**** WARNING ****
Timed out waiting for ZIO application to shut down after 5 seconds. You can adjust your application's shutdown timeout by overriding the `shutdownTimeout` method
```

At that point, the JVM process exits immediately even though the 20-second finalizer has not yet finished.

:::note

> This only applies on **JVM** and **Scala Native**. Other platforms like **Scala.js** do not invoke the shutdown hook on external signals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, `gracefulShutdownTimeout` is implemented for the **JVM** and **Scala Native** only
```
